docs: Maven/Gradle executor (#1820)
kubeshop/testkube: docs/executor-gradle.md

# Gradle based tests

> Testkube allow us to run Gradle based tasks which could be also tests. For example we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube now. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testkube allows running Gradle based tasks that could be also tests. For example, we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube. 
```

## **Test Environment**

> We'll try to put simple JUnit test to our cluster and run it, Testkube Gradle Executor handles `gradle` and `gradlew` binaries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will put a simple JUnit test in our cluster and run it. The Testkube Gradle Executor handles `gradle` and `gradlew` binaries.
```

> Because gradle projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure we'll need to load them from Git directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since Gradle projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure, we'll need to load them from the Git directory.
```

> You can find example projects in executors repo here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle/tree/main/examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find example projects in our executors repo here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle/tree/main/examples.
```

> You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle/tree/main/examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle/tree/main/examples.
```

> Let's create some simple test which will check if some env variable is set to true: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create a simple test which will check if an env variable is set to true: 
```

```java
package hello.gradle;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

class LibraryTest {
    @Test void someLibraryMethodReturnsTrue() {
        String env = System.getenv("TESTKUBE_GRADLE");
        assertTrue(Boolean.parseBoolean(env), "TESTKUBE_GRADLE env should be true");
    }
}
```

> Default Gradle executor look like below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Gradle executor looks like: 
```

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: gradle-jdk18-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-gradle-executor:0.1.4-jdk18
  types:
  - gradle/project
  - gradle/test
  - gradle/integrationTest 
```

> As we can notice there are several types, Gradle excutor handle second part after `/` like task name, so `gradle/test` will run `gradle test` and so on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see, there are several types. The Gradle executor handles the second part after `/` as a task name, so `gradle/test` will run `gradle test` and so on. 
```

Instead of `project` which is generic one and force you to pass additional argument during test execution 

> e.g. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```sh
kubectl testkube run gradle-example-project --args='runMyCustomTask' 
```

> ## **Create a New Gradle based Test**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## **Create a New Gradle-based Test**
```

```sh
kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle.git --git-path examples/hello-gradle --type gradle/test --name gradle-example-test --git-branch main
```

## **Running a Test**

Let's pass the env variable to our test run:

```sh

>  run test gradle-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_GRADLE=true

Reviewer 2: this one is missing `kubectl testkube` from the beginning of the command

# ...... after some time

Test execution completed with success in 16.555s 🥇

> Watch test execution until complete:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Watch the test execution until complete:
```

$ kubectl testkube watch execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993

> Use following command to get test execution details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following command to get test execution details:
```

$ kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

## **Getting Test Results**

Now we can watch/get test execution details:

```sh
kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

Output:

```sh
# ....... a lot of Gradle logs

> Task :compileTestJava
> Task :processTestResources NO-SOURCE
> Task :testClasses
> Task :test

BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 10s
2 actionable tasks: 2 executed

Status Test execution completed with success 🥇
```

> ## Using different JDKs 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using Different JDKs 
```

In the Java world, you would like to have control over the Runtime environment. Testkube can easily handle that for you! 

> We're building several Java iamges to handle constraints which Gradle can put in it's build file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're building several Java images to handle constraints which Gradle can put in its build file.
```

> To use different executor you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own docker image based on gradle executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a different executor, you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own Docker image based on the Gradle executor.
```

> Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs, to handle that issue just create new Gradle executor 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs. In Testkube, create a new Gradle executor.
```

> Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs. In Testkube, create a new Gradle executor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs. In Testkube, create a new Gradle executor:
```

content of `gradle-jdk18-executor.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: gradle-jdk18-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-gradle-executor:0.1.4-jdk18
  types:
  - gradle:jdk18/project
  - gradle:jdk18/test
  - gradle:jdk18/integrationTest 
```

And add it to your cluster: 
```sh
kubectl apply -f gradle-jdk18-executor.yaml 
```

> Now just create new test with type which our new executor can handle e.g.: `gradle:jdk18/test`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create the new test with the type that our new executor can handle e.g.: `gradle:jdk18/test`.
```

> Now, create the new test with the type that our new executor can handle e.g.: `gradle:jdk18/test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, create the new test with the type that our new executor can handle e.g.: `gradle:jdk18/test`:
```

```sh 

>  # create test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 # create test:
```

 kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-gradle.git --git-path examples/hello-gradle-jdk18 --type gradle:jdk18/test --name gradle-jdk18-example-test --git-branch main

> # and run it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# and run it:
```

kubectl testkube run test gradle-jdk18-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_GRADLE=true
```

## **Summary**

> Testkube simplifies running Java/Kotlin based tests (yes: `build.gradle.kts` is also handled) and allows to easily merge Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testkube simplifies running Java/Kotlin based tests (`build.gradle.kts` is also handled) and allows merging Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem easily.
```
